1. Document Collection Statistics
If we look at the search terms we can see they have already been preprocessed with conflation strategies to deal with different spellings in words, misspellings and affixes (this can be seen in terms such as “financi”, “analysi” and “analyst”). This brings related terms together, enhancing their ranking’s usage in information retrieval. 


The document frequency of the terms also appears to follow Zipf’s law. The document frequency starts very high (indicating the terms are too common). This may be due to the common content of the documents eg. “1994” is very common and so this can be assumed to be the year in which most of the documents were published. Hence, this term is not very useful in IR. The same goes for terms such as “financi”, “compani” etc. which are all very common in business and economical focused documents. These high ranked terms are unlikely to be very useful in IR for this reason.


The relative frequency of terms sharply declines for the first 100 terms or so. The frequency then decreases at a slower rate. The terms around this rank and onwards are more likely to be relevant in IR. This is further supported by these terms’ comparison of document frequency to collection frequency. A higher percentage of the terms in this range have a proportionately higher collection to document frequency. Meaning that when they occur in a document, they occur more than just once or twice. This makes them useful terms in retrieving more relevant documents.




2. Interactive Search Using Lucene
Search request: “business closures”
Search using BM25: 
Using the above search term, I looked at the resulting document rankings, document lengths, and term frequencies. It is clear that a low B parameter causes the search to prefer documents which have a higher overall occurence of the search terms than others. As a result, this search returned a lot of very long documents. On the other hand, a value of 0.7 favoured a mix of document lengths, but did not bias purely toward frequency of the term words in the document. The K parameter seemed to favour a higher term frequency in the document, but this was difficult to fully analyse if this was influenced by other terms in the document. 


Search using TR-IDF:
This model seemed to prefer much shorter documents than the BM25 model with values B=0.7 K=1.2. I found it hard to gauge exactly why this was, as the term frequencies were much lower in many of these documents. However on reading, the relevancy of the documents seemed to be higher in this search. 
        
In general the snippets seemed to cut text from in and around appearances of the search terms in order to give an insight into the contents of the documents.